Add simulated device readme. (#12508)
project-chip/connectedhomeip: docs/guides/simulated_device_linux.md

# Simulated Device How-To (Linux)

> This README contains instructions on how to build, run, and interact with a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document contains instructions on how to build, run, and interact with a
```

simulated device. All virtual accessories live in

> [examples/placeholder/linux/apps](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/tree/master/examples/placeholder/linux/apps).

Reviewer: IMHO, It's better to use relative references
```suggestion
[examples/placeholder/linux/apps](../../examples/placeholder/linux/apps).
```

Each accessory needs to be hosted into a subfolder. It will be the name of the
application. For example `app1` will create a binary named `chip-app1`.

If some parameters need to be overridden, a `CHIPProjectConfig.h` file can be
placed under an ‘include’ folder into the app folder. For example
`examples/placeholder/linux/apps/app1/include/CHIPProjectConfig.h`

In order to generate specific tests for a given accessory, a

> [examples/placeholder/linux/apps/app1/tests.js](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/tree/master/examples/placeholder/linux/apps/app1/tests.js)

Reviewer: ditto line 5
```suggestion
[examples/placeholder/linux/apps/app1/tests.js](../../examples/placeholder/linux/apps/app1/tests.js)
```

file can be added into the application directory. The tests listed there are the
one that will be executed once the application has been commissioned.
<br><br>Simulated Device: simulation of an application in which tests can be

> added. It is defined by a [ZAP config]() file and tests can be added with a

Reviewer: The reference for ZAP config file wasn't provided 
```suggestion
added. It is defined by a ZAP config file and tests can be added with a
```

> [YAML file](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/tree/master/src/app/tests/suites/certification/Test_TC_DM_1_3_Simulated.yaml).

Reviewer: ditto line 5
```suggestion
[YAML file](../../src/app/tests/suites/certification/Test_TC_DM_1_3_Simulated.yaml).
```

<br><br>

### Prerequisite

<hr>

> -   [Building Prerequisites](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/tree/master/docs/guides/BUILDING.md#prerequisites)

Reviewer: ditto line 5
```suggestion
-   [Building Prerequisites](./BUILDING.md#prerequisites)
```

> -   [Building Prerequisites](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/tree/master/docs/guides/BUILDING.md#prerequisitesn)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   [Building Prerequisites](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/tree/master/docs/guides/BUILDING.md#prerequisites)
```

> -   [Prepare For Building](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/tree/master/docs/guides/BUILDING.md#prepare-for-building)

Reviewer: ditto line 5
```suggestion
-   [Prepare For Building](./BUILDING.md#prepare-for-building)
```

> -   [Prepare For Bduiling](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/tree/master/docs/guides/BUILDING.md#prepare-for-building)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   [Prepare For Building](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/tree/master/docs/guides/BUILDING.md#prepare-for-building)
```

> <br><br>Simulated Device: simulation of an application in which tests can be
> added. It is defined by a [ZAP config]() file and tests can be added with a
> [YAML file](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/tree/master/src/app/tests/suites/certification/Test_TC_DM_1_3_Simulated.yaml).
> <br><br>
> 
> ### Prerequisite
> 
> <hr>
> 
> -   [Building Prerequisites](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/tree/master/docs/guides/BUILDING.md#prerequisites)
> -   [Prepare For Building](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/tree/master/docs/guides/BUILDING.md#prepare-for-building)
> 
> <hr>
> 
> <a name="virtualization"></a>

Reviewer: Are those HTML tags needed?
```suggestion

Simulated Device: simulation of an application in which tests can be
added. It is defined by a [ZAP config]() file and tests can be added with a
[YAML file](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/tree/master/src/app/tests/suites/certification/Test_TC_DM_1_3_Simulated.yaml).

### Prerequisite

-   [Building Prerequisites](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/tree/master/docs/guides/BUILDING.md#prerequisites)
-   [Prepare For Building](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/tree/master/docs/guides/BUILDING.md#prepare-for-building)

```

> ## Generating, and Building the default Simulated App with Script

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Generating and building the default Simulated App with Script
```

In order to utilize the app against a commissioner or controller, the app will
need to be specifically built.

1. To generate the ZAP files, and build the `chip-app1` binary completing the
   following steps:

    ```
     ./scripts/examples/gn_build_test_example.sh app1
    ```

## Build the App only

In order to utilize the app against a commissioner or controller, the app will
need to be specifically built.

> 1. To only buil the `chip-app1` binary completing the following steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. To only build the `chip-app1` binary completing the following steps:
```

    ```
    source scripts/activate.sh
    CHIP_ROOT="$(cd -- "$(dirname -- "${BASH_SOURCE[0]}")" &>/dev/null && pwd)"
    GN_ARGS="chip_tests_zap_config=\"app1\""
    GN_ARGS+="chip_project_config_include_dirs=[\"$CHIP_ROOT/examples/placeholder/linux/apps/app1/include\", \"$CHIP_ROOT/config/standalone\"]"
    GN_ARGS+="chip_config_network_layer_ble=false"

    gn gen --check --fail-on-unused-args --root=examples/placeholder/linux out/simulated --args="$GN_ARGS"

    ninja -C out/simulated
    ```

## Running the app

Now that the building is completed there is a `chip-app1` binary created. This
binary can be executed on a linux os.

1. To generate the ZAP files, and build the `chip-app1` binary completing the
   following steps:

    ```
    ./out/simulated/chip-app1
    ```

## Running the app with test parameter

Now that the building is completed there is a `chip-app1` binary created. This
binary can be executed on a linux os with test commands.

1. To generate the ZAP files, and build the `chip-app1` binary completing the
   following steps:

    ```

>     ./out/simulated/chip-app1 --command [TEST MAME]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ./out/simulated/chip-app1 --command [TEST NAME]
```

    ```

## Interacting with the simulated app

Now that the building the app and starting it is complete, you will be able to
interact with it using chip-tool

1. Follow the instruction to build chip-tool in the

>    [chip-tool readme](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/tree/master/examples/chip-tool).

Reviewer: ditto line 5
```suggestion
   [chip-tool readme](../../examples/chip-tool).
```

2. Run this command to initiate the pairing.
    ```
    ./out/debug/standalone/chip-tool pairing ethernet 0x654321 20202021 3842 [IP ADDRESS of App] 5542
    ```
3. Run this command to complete the commissioning.
    ```
    ./out/debug/standalone/chip-tool generalcommissioning commissioning-complete 0x654321 0
    ```
4. Most tests will start at this point and now an send cluster commands with
   chip-tool as follow.

    ```
    ./out/debug/standalone/chip-tool onoff on 0x654321 1
    ./out/debug/standalone/chip-tool onoff read on-off 0x654321 1
    ./out/debug/standalone/chip-tool onoff write on-time 1 0x654321 1
    ```

    See

>     [chip-tool readme](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/tree/master/examples/chip-tool)

Reviewer: ditto line 5
```suggestion
    [chip-tool readme](../../examples/chip-tool)
```

    for additional commands.

> ## Adding simulated Tests via TAML

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Adding simulated Tests via YAML
```

In order to validate commissioner/controller behavior, tests need to be added to
the simulated device test framework. To achieve this, YAML files are created and
new code is generated.

1. YAML test file are located in

>    [YAML folder](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/tree/master/src/app/tests/suites/certification/)

Reviewer: ditto line 5
```suggestion
   [YAML folder](../../src/app/tests/suites/certification/)
```

2. Test names must follow a strict format dues to CI of test recognition. The
   format is as follows:
    - Test_TC\_[`CATEGORY ABBREVIATION`]\_[`SECTION NUMBER`]\_[`SUBSECTION
      NUMBER`]\_Simulated.yaml
    - <strong>`IMPORTANT`: The test name must end in Simulated with the
      capital.</strong>
3. Available properties can be found in

>    [YAML Test Name](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/tree/master/src/app/tests/suites/README.md)

Reviewer: ditto line 5
```suggestion
   [YAML Test Name](../../src/app/tests/suites/README.md)
```

>    [YAML Test Reame](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/tree/master/src/app/tests/suites/README.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   [YAML Test Name](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/tree/master/src/app/tests/suites/README.md)
```

4. An Additional property is as follows:

    | Name | Description                                                                 |
    | ---- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
    | wait | The command that is expected to be received on the app from the controller. |

> 5. [Test_TC_DM_1_3_Simulated](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/blob/master/src/app/tests/suites/certification/Test_TC_DM_1_3_Simulated.yaml)

Reviewer: ditto line 5
```suggestion
5. [Test_TC_DM_1_3_Simulated](../../src/app/tests/suites/certification/Test_TC_DM_1_3_Simulated.yaml)
```

   is an example of a written test that runs on the simulated device.
6. Next, it will need to be added to

>    [examples/placeholder/linux/apps/app1/tests.js](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/tree/master/examples/placeholder/linux/apps/app1/tests.js).

Reviewer: ditto line 5
```suggestion
   [examples/placeholder/linux/apps/app1/tests.js](../../examples/placeholder/linux/apps/app1/tests.js).
```

   in the following array
    ```javascript
    const tests = ["Test_TC_DM_1_3_Simulated"];
    ```

> 7. Then, the code will beed to generated using ZAP. Follow

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. Then, the code will be generated using ZAP. Follow
```
